Document obsoletion of owned JSON collections without an explicit key (EF11) (#5383)
aspnet/EntityFramework.Docs: entity-framework/core/what-is-new/ef-core-11.0/breaking-changes.md

Owned JSON entities that have an explicit primary key, as well as non-collection owned JSON references, are not affected by this change.

#### Why

[Complex types](xref:core/what-is-new/ef-core-10.0/whatsnew#complex-types) became fully supported in EF Core 10, including for [JSON mapping](xref:core/what-is-new/ef-core-10.0/whatsnew#json). Complex types are a better fit than owned types for JSON documents: they have value semantics and no identity, which avoids many of the issues that come from using owned entity types - which are entity types - to model what is fundamentally a value embedded in another document. In particular, owned JSON collections without an explicit key relied on a synthetic ordinal key, which has known limitations and corner cases.

#### Mitigations

The recommended mitigation is to migrate the type to a complex type, which is now the preferred way to map types to JSON:

```csharp
protected override void OnModelCreating(ModelBuilder modelBuilder)
    => modelBuilder.Entity<Blog>().ComplexCollection(b => b.Posts, b => b.ToJson());
```

> Alternatively, if you need to keep the owned-type mapping, configure an explicit primary key on the owned type. Once a key is configured, the warning no longer applies:

Reviewer: @copilot 
```suggestion
Alternatively, if you need to keep the owned-type mapping, configure a non-shadow primary key on the owned type. Once a key is configured, the warning no longer applies:
```

}
```

<a name="owned-json-collections-obsolete"></a>

### Owned JSON collections without an explicit key are obsolete

[Tracking Issue #37289](https://github.com/dotnet/efcore/issues/37289)

#### Old behavior

Previously, owned entity types mapped to a JSON column via <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Metadata.Builders.OwnedNavigationBuilder.ToJson*> could be used as collections without configuring an explicit primary key. EF Core would synthesize an ordinal (positional) key behind the scenes to identify each item in the collection:

```csharp
public class Blog
{
    public int Id { get; set; }
    public List<Post> Posts { get; set; } = new();
}

public class Post
{
    // No key property
    public required string Title { get; set; }
    public required string Content { get; set; }
}

protected override void OnModelCreating(ModelBuilder modelBuilder)
    => modelBuilder.Entity<Blog>().OwnsMany(b => b.Posts, b => b.ToJson());
```

#### New behavior

> Starting with EF Core 11.0, configuring an owned JSON collection without an explicit key produces an obsoletion warning (`EF8001`). The mapping continues to work, but is now considered deprecated and is expected to be removed in a future release.

Reviewer: @copilot There's no EF8001 warning anymore. The warning is surfaced through the EF warning mechanism and can be suppressed through configuration
